she's very eager to take charge of the
chick but the male having cared for it
for so long is reluctant to give it up
she has literally to push him back to
get him to release it
the transfer is a tricky maneuver that
must be done fast a chip left on the ice
for only two minutes will die
the male's after their four-month ordeal
near to starvation and desperate to feed
have to walk a hundred miles or so back
to the open sea mothers and chicks spend
the next few weeks learning each other's
call and establishing a strong bond that
ensures that they will recognize one
another in the months ahead when she
returns from feeding tips it's early
spring and the weather is still variable
severe storms are a real threat to the
chicks survival one that has been
abandoned seek shelter from passing
adults one of them seems interested but
the vital bond between parent and chick
simply isn't there and eventually the
adult walks off
in fact the adults do have a strong
instinct to protect chicks so much so
that birds that have not managed to
breed will try to take possession of a
stray or abandoned chick but this
fostering never succeeds because the
adult has no partner to help in rearing
the waif
these desperate and partnered penguins
will sometimes fight over a chick and
crush it to death
you